 	 	 Table of Contents UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-Q (Mark One) For the quarterly period ended September 30, 2016 OR For the transition period from to Commission File Number: 001-35727 Netflix, Inc. (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 100 Winchester Circle, Los Gatos, California 95032 (Address and zip code of principal executive offices) (408) 540-3700 (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No o Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes o No x As of September 30, 2016 , there were 429,145,023 shares of the registrant s common stock, par value $0.001, outstanding. Table of Contents Table of Contents 2 Table of Contents NETFLIX, INC. Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited) (in thousands, except per share data) See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 3 Table of Contents NETFLIX, INC. Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (unaudited) (in thousands) See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 4 Table of Contents NETFLIX, INC. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited) (in thousands) See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 5 Table of Contents NETFLIX, INC. Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share and par value data) See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 6 Table of Contents NETFLIX, INC. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The accompanying consolidated interim financial statements of Netflix, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the Company ) have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( U.S. ) and are consistent in all material respects with those applied in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) on January 28, 2016. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the streaming content asset amortization policy; the recognition and measurement of income tax assets and liabilities; and the valuation of stock-based compensation. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. On a regular basis, the Company evaluates the assumptions, judgments and estimates. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The interim financial information is unaudited, but reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to fairly present the information set forth herein. The interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and related notes included in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full year. The Company has three reportable segments: Domestic streaming, International streaming and Domestic DVD, all of which derive revenue from monthly membership fees. See Note 10 for further detail on the Company's segments. There have been no material changes in the Company s significant accounting policies as compared to the significant accounting policies described in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Certain prior year amounts on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Specifically, the Company reclassified prepaid content from "Other current assets" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to "Current content assets, net". The impact of reclassification on the cash flow resulted in a decrease in "Other current assets" and "Additions to streaming content assets" of $4.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2015 , and an increase in "Other current assets" and "Additions to streaming content assets" of $26.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . In the third quarter of 2016, the Company changed the amortization method of certain types of content given changes in estimated viewing patterns of this content. The effect of this change in estimate on operating income, net income and basic and diluted earnings per share was not material for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) which amended the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 establishes principles for recognizing revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers, in an amount that reflects the expected consideration received in exchange for those goods or services. In July 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods). Early adoption is permitted to the original effective date for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those periods). The amendments may be applied retrospectively to each prior period (full retrospective) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application (modified retrospective). The Company will adopt ASU 2014-09 in the first quarter of 2018 and apply the full retrospective approach. The Company does not expect the impact on its consolidated financial statements to be material. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) in order to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for those leases classified as operating leases under previous GAAP. ASU 2016-02 requires that a lessee should recognize a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (including interim periods within those periods) using a modified retrospective approach and early adoption is permitted. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 in the first quarter of 2019 and is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of the ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting , which amends Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation . ASU 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years and early adoption is permitted. The Company will adopt ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of 2017 and is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of the ASU on its consolidated financial statements. 7 Table of Contents 2. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of outstanding shares of common stock during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of outstanding shares of common stock and, when dilutive, potential common shares outstanding during the period. Potential common shares consist of incremental shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of stock options. The computation of earnings per share is as follows: Employee stock options with exercise prices greater than the average market price of the common stock were excluded from the diluted calculation as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. The following table summarizes the potential common shares excluded from the diluted calculation: 8 Table of Contents 3. Short-term Investments The Company s investment policy is consistent with the definition of available-for-sale securities. The Company does not buy and hold securities principally for the purpose of selling them in the near future. The Company s policy is focused on the preservation of capital, liquidity and investment return. From time to time, the Company may sell certain securities but the objectives are generally not to generate profits on short-term differences in price. The following tables summarize, by major security type, the Company s assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the category using the fair value hierarchy and where they are classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheets: (1) Primarily restricted cash that is related to workers compensation deposits and letter of credit agreements. Fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. The hierarchy level assigned to each security in the Company s available-for-sale portfolio and cash equivalents is based on its assessment of the transparency and reliability of the inputs used in the valuation of such instrument at the measurement date. The fair value of available-for-sale securities and cash equivalents included in the Level 1 category is based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market. The fair value of available-for-sale securities included in the Level 2 category is based on observable inputs, such as quoted prices for similar assets at the measurement date; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly. These values were obtained from an independent pricing service and were evaluated using pricing models that vary by asset class and may incorporate available trade, bid and other market information and price quotes from well-established independent pricing vendors and broker-dealers. The Company's procedures include controls to ensure that appropriate fair values are recorded, such as comparing prices obtained from multiple independent sources. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the fair value of the Company s senior notes. The Company does not intend to sell the investments that are in an unrealized loss position and it is not likely that the Company will be required to sell any investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis. As such, the Company does not consider those investments with an unrealized loss to be other-than-temporarily impaired at September 30, 2016 or December 31, 2015, respectively. There were no material other-than-temporary impairments or credit losses related to available-for-sale securities in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. In addition, there were no material gross realized gains or losses in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. 9 Table of Contents The estimated fair value of short-term investments by contractual maturity as of September 30, 2016 is as follows: 4. Balance Sheet Components Content Assets Content assets consisted of the following: Produced content is included in "Non-current content assets, net" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain original content, such as House of Cards, is licensed and therefore not included in produced content. Of the produced content that has been released, approximately 28% and 82% , is expected to be amortized over the next twelve and thirty-six months, respectively. The amount of accrued participations and residuals to be paid during the next twelve months is not material. Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment and accumulated depreciation consisted of the following: The increase in capital work-in-progress is primarily related to leasehold improvements for the Company's expanded headquarters in Los Gatos, California and the Company's new office space in Los Angeles, California. 10 Table of Contents 5. Long-term Debt As of September 30, 2016 , the Company had aggregate outstanding long-term debt of $2,374.0 million , net of $26.0 million of issuance costs, with varying maturities (the "Notes"). Each of the Notes were issued at par and are senior unsecured obligations of the Company. Interest is payable semi-annually at fixed rates. The following table provides a summary of the Company's Notes and the fair values based on quoted market prices in less active markets as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 : Each of the Notes are repayable in whole or in part upon the occurrence of a change of control, at the option of the holders, at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal plus accrued interest. The Company may redeem the Notes prior to maturity in whole or in part at an amount equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and an applicable premium. The Notes include, among other terms and conditions, limitations on the Company's ability to create, incur or allow certain liens; enter into sale and lease-back transactions; create, assume, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness of certain of the Company's subsidiaries; and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the Company's and its subsidiaries assets, to another person. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company was in compliance with all related covenants. 6. Commitments and Contingencies Streaming Content As of September 30, 2016 , the Company had $14.4 billion of obligations comprised of $3.5 billion included in "Current content liabilities" and $3.0 billion of "Non-current content liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and $7.9 billion of obligations that are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as they did not then meet the criteria for recognition. As of December 31, 2015 , the Company had $10.9 billion of obligations comprised of $2.8 billion included in "Current content liabilities" and $2.0 billion of "Non-current content liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and $6.1 billion of obligations that are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as they did not then meet the criteria for recognition. The expected timing of payments for these streaming content obligations is as follows: 11 Table of Contents Content obligations include amounts related to the acquisition, licensing and production of content. Obligations that are in non U.S. dollar currencies are translated to the U.S. dollar at period end rates. A content obligation for the production of original content includes non-cancellable commitments under creative talent and employment agreements. A content obligation for the acquisition and licensing of content is incurred at the time the Company enters into an agreement to obtain future titles. Once a title becomes available, a content liability is generally recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain agreements include the obligation to license rights for unknown future titles, the ultimate quantity and/or fees for which are not yet determinable as of the reporting date. Traditional film output deals, like the U.S. output deal with Disney, or certain TV series license agreements where the number of seasons to be aired is unknown, are examples of such license agreements. The Company does not include any estimated obligation for these future titles beyond the known minimum amount. However, the unknown obligations are expected to be significant. Legal Proceedings From time to time, in the normal course of its operations, the Company is subject to litigation matters and claims, including claims relating to employee relations, business practices and patent infringement. Litigation can be expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict and the Company's view of these matters may change in the future as the litigation and events related thereto unfold. The Company expenses legal fees as incurred. The Company records a provision for contingent losses when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. An unfavorable outcome to any legal matter, if material, could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations or its financial position, liquidity or results of operations. On January 13, 2012, the first of three purported shareholder class action lawsuits was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against the Company and certain of its officers and directors. Two additional purported shareholder class action lawsuits were filed in the same court on January 27, 2012 and February 29, 2012 alleging substantially similar claims. These lawsuits were consolidated into In re Netflix, Inc., Securities Litigation , Case No. 3:12-cv-00225-SC, and the Court selected lead plaintiffs. On June 26, 2012, lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint which alleged violations of the federal securities laws. The Court dismissed the consolidated complaint with leave to amend on February 13, 2013. Lead plaintiffs filed a first amended consolidated complaint on March 22, 2013. The Court dismissed the first amended consolidated complaint with prejudice on August 20, 2013, and judgment was entered on September 27, 2013. Lead plaintiffs filed a motion to alter or amend the judgment and requested leave to file a second amended complaint on October 25, 2013. On January 17, 2014, the Court denied that motion. On February 18, 2014, lead plaintiffs appealed that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; oral argument occurred on March 17, 2016. On April 11, 2016, the Ninth Circuit panel affirmed the dismissal of the suit with prejudice. On November 23, 2011, the first of six purported shareholder derivative suits was filed in the Superior Court of California, Santa Clara County, against the Company and certain of its officers and directors. Five additional purported shareholder derivative suits were subsequently filed: two in the Superior Court of California, Santa Clara County on February 9, 2012 and May 2, 2012; and three in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on February 13, 2012, February 24, 2012 and April 2, 2012. The purported shareholder derivative suits filed in the Northern District of California have been voluntarily dismissed. On July 5, 2012, the purported shareholder derivative suits filed in Santa Clara County were consolidated into In re Netflix, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation , Case No. 1-12-cv-218399, and lead counsel was appointed. A consolidated complaint was filed on December 4, 2012, with plaintiffs seeking compensatory damages and other relief. The consolidated complaint alleges, among other things, that certain of the Company's current and former officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties, issued false and misleading statements primarily regarding the Company's streaming business, violated accounting rules concerning segment reporting, violated provisions of the California Corporations Code, and wasted corporate assets. The consolidated complaint further alleges that the defendants caused the Company to buy back stock at artificially inflated prices to the detriment of the Company and its shareholders while contemporaneously selling personally held Company stock. The Company filed a demurrer to the consolidated complaint and a motion to stay the derivative litigation in favor of the related federal securities class action on February 4, 2013. On June 21, 2013, the Court granted the motion to stay the derivative litigation pending resolution of the related federal securities class action. On August 29, 2016, by stipulation of the parties, the consolidated complaint was dismissed by the Court. The Company is involved in other litigation matters not listed above but does not consider the matters to be material either individually or in the aggregate at this time. The Company's view of the matters not listed may change in the future as the litigation and events related thereto unfold. Indemnification In the ordinary course of business, the Company has entered into contractual arrangements under which it has agreed to provide indemnification of varying scope and terms to business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of the Company s breach of such agreements and out of intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In these circumstances, payment may be conditional on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract. The Company's obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time or amount, and in some instances, the Company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments. In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its 12 Table of Contents directors and certain of its officers that will require it, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. The terms of such obligations vary. It is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. No amount has been accrued in the accompanying consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations. 7. Stockholders Equity Stock Split In March 2015, the Company's Board of Directors adopted an amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, to increase the number of shares of capital stock the Company is authorized to issue from 170,000,000 ( 160,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock), par value $0.001 , to 5,000,000,000 ( 4,990,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock), par value $0.001 . This amendment to the Company's certificate of incorporation was approved by the Company's stockholders at the 2015 Annual Meeting held on June 9, 2015. On June 23, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors declared a seven -for-one stock split in the form of a stock dividend that was paid on July 14, 2015 to all shareholders of record as of July 2, 2015. Stock Option Plan In June 2011, the Company adopted the 2011 Stock Plan. The 2011 Stock Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options to employees and for the grant of non-statutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units to employees, directors and consultants. As of September 30, 2016 , 14.1 million shares were reserved for future grants under the 2011 Stock Plan. A summary of the activities related to the Company s stock option plans is as follows: The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between the Company s closing stock price on the last trading day of the third quarter of 2016 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on the last trading day of the third quarter of 2016 . This amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company s common stock. A summary of the amounts related to option exercises, is as follows: 13 Table of Contents Stock-based Compensation The following table summarizes the assumptions used to value stock option grants using the lattice-binomial model and the valuation data: The Company considers several factors in determining the suboptimal exercise factor, including the historical and estimated option exercise behavior. The Company calculates expected volatility based solely on implied volatility. The Company believes that implied volatility of publicly traded options in its common stock is more reflective of market conditions, and given consistently high trade volumes of the options, can reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility of its common stock. In valuing shares issued under the Company s employee stock option plans, the Company bases the risk-free interest rate on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with terms similar to the contractual term of the options. The Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore uses an expected dividend yield of zero in the option valuation model. The Company does not use a post-vesting termination rate as options are fully vested upon grant date. 8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The following table summarizes the changes in the accumulated balance of other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 : The amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss were immaterial for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 . 14 Table of Contents 9. Income Taxes The effective tax rates for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were 35% and 30% , respectively. The effective tax rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were 30% and 34% , respectively. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 differed from the Federal statutory rate primarily due to Federal and California research and development ("R D") credits partially offset by state taxes, foreign taxes and non-deductible expenses. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 differed from the Federal statutory rate primarily due to the California R D credit partially offset by state taxes, foreign taxes and non-deductible expenses. The increase in effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015 was due primarily to increased operating results for the three months ended September 30, 2016. The decrease in effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily attributable to the permanent reinstatement of the Federal R D credit in the fourth quarter of 2015. Gross unrecognized tax benefits were $16.5 million and $17.1 million as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The gross unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized by the Company, will result in a reduction of approximately $13.7 million to the provision for income taxes thereby favorably impacting the Company s effective tax rate. As of September 30, 2016 , the Company had identified gross unrecognized tax benefits of $16.5 million , of which $1.6 million was classified as Other non-current liabilities and $14.9 million as a reduction to deferred tax assets which was classified as "Other non-current assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company includes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the "Provision for income taxes" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Interest and penalties included in the Company s Provision for income taxes were not material in any of the periods presented. Deferred tax assets include $200.0 million and $180.6 million classified as Other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively. In evaluating its ability to realize the net deferred tax assets, the Company considered all available positive and negative evidence, including its past operating results and the forecast of future market growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , it was considered more likely than not that all deferred tax assets would be realized. Income tax benefits attributable to the exercise of employee stock options are recorded in additional paid-in-capital. These benefits amounted to $12.6 million and $37.7 million , during the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and amounted to $37.2 million and $105.6 million , during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company files U.S. Federal, state and foreign tax returns. The Company is currently under examination by the IRS for 2014 and 2015. The 2008 through 2015 state tax returns are subject to examination by state tax authorities. The Company has no significant foreign jurisdiction audits underway, and 2011 through 2015 remain subject to examination by foreign tax authorities. Given the potential outcome of the current examinations as well as the impact of the current examinations on the potential expiration of the statute of limitations, it is reasonably possible that the balance of unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change within the next twelve months. At this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible adjustments to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits cannot be made. 10. Segment Information The Company has three reportable segments: Domestic streaming, International streaming and Domestic DVD. Segment information is presented in the same manner that the Company s chief operating decision maker ("CODM") reviews the operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. The Company s CODM reviews revenues and contribution profit (loss) for each of the reportable segments. Contribution profit (loss) is defined as revenues less cost of revenues and marketing expenses incurred by the segment. The Company has aggregated the results of the International operating segments into one reportable segment because these operating segments share similar long-term economic and other qualitative characteristics. The Domestic streaming segment derives revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to members in the United States. The International streaming segment derives revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to members outside the United States. The Domestic DVD segment derives revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of DVD-by-mail. Revenues and the related payment card fees are attributed to the operating segment based on the nature of the underlying membership (streaming or DVD) and the geographic region from which the membership originates. There are no internal revenue transactions between the Company s segments. The vast majority of the cost of revenues relate to content expenses, which include the amortization of streaming content assets and other costs associated with the licensing and acquisition of streaming content. In connection with the Company's global expansion, content acquired, licensed, and produced increasingly includes global rights. The Company allocates this content between the International and Domestic streaming segments based on estimated fair market value. Content expenses for each streaming segment thus include both expenses directly incurred by the segment as well as an allocation of expenses incurred for global rights. Other costs of revenues such as delivery costs are primarily attributed to the operating segment based on amounts directly incurred by the segment. Marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising expenses and payments made to device partners which are generally included in the segment in which the expenditures are directly incurred. 15 Table of Contents The Company's long-lived tangible assets were located as follows: The following table represents segment information for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 : 16 Table of Contents The following table represents segment information for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 : The following table represents the amortization of content assets: 17 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding: our core strategy; the impact of, and the Company s response to, new accounting standards; content amortization, pricing changes, including their impact on paid memberships and average monthly revenue per paying membership; dividends; impact of foreign currency and exchange rate fluctuations; investments in marketing and content, including original content; cash use in connection with the acquisition, licensing and production of content; contribution margin and free cash flow expectations; unrecognized tax benefits; deferred tax assets; tax settlements; accessing and obtaining additional capital; accounting treatment for changes related to content assets; and future contractual obligations, including unknown streaming content obligations. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those included in forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on January 28, 2016, in particular the risk factors discussed under the heading Risk Factors in Part I, Item IA. We assume no obligation to revise or publicly release any revision to any forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless required by law. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations Web site (http://ir.netflix.com), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels, as well as social media, to communicate with our members and the public about our company, our services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the United States ("U.S.") social media channels listed on our investor relations Web site. Overview We are the world s leading Internet television network with over 86 million streaming members in over 190 countries enjoying more than 125 million hours of TV shows and movies per day, including original series, documentaries and feature films. Members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any Internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials or commitments. Additionally, in the U.S., our members can receive DVDs delivered quickly to their homes. We are a pioneer in the Internet delivery of TV shows and movies, launching our streaming service in 2007. Since this launch, we have developed an ecosystem for Internet-connected screens and have added increasing amounts of content that enable consumers to enjoy TV shows and movies directly on their Internet-connected screens. As a result of these efforts, we have experienced growing consumer acceptance of, and interest in, the delivery of TV shows and movies directly over the Internet. Historically, the first and fourth quarters (October through March) represent our greatest membership growth across our Domestic and International streaming segments and the fewest membership losses in our Domestic DVD segment. Our core strategy is to grow our streaming membership business globally within the parameters of our consolidated net income and operating segment contribution profit (loss) targets. We are continuously improving our members' experience by expanding our streaming content with a focus on a programming mix of content that delights our members. In addition, we are perpetually enhancing our user interface and extending our streaming service to more Internet-connected screens. Results of Operations The following represents our consolidated performance highlights: 18 Table of Contents Consolidated revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased $551.8 million as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 due to growth in global streaming paying memberships, primarily in our international memberships reflecting our expansion and focus on Netflix as a global Internet TV network. In addition, the average monthly revenue per paying streaming membership increased due to price changes and plan mix. The increase in operating income and net income for the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015 was due primarily to increased revenues partially offset by increased content expenses as we continue to acquire, license and produce content, including more Netflix originals, as well as increased headcount costs to support continued improvements in our streaming service and our international expansion. We offer three types of streaming membership plans. In the U.S. our "basic" plan is priced at $7.99 per month and includes access to standard definition quality streaming on a single screen at a time. Our "standard" plan is our most popular streaming plan and is priced at $9.99 per month and includes access to high definition quality streaming on two screens concurrently. Our "premium" plan is priced at $11.99 per month and includes access to high definition and ultra-high definition quality content on four screens concurrently. Internationally, the membership plans are structured similarly to the U.S. and range in price from the U.S. dollar equivalent of approximately $5.00 per month to $18.00 per month. We expect that from time to time the prices of our membership plans in each country may change. For instance, in May 2014, in the U.S., we increased the price of our standard plan from $7.99 per month to $8.99 per month with existing memberships grandfathered for a two year period. In October 2015, in the U.S., we increased the price of this same standard plan from $8.99 per month to $9.99 per month with existing memberships grandfathered for a one year period. In the second quarter of 2016, we began to phase out the grandfathered pricing, giving members the option of electing the basic streaming plan at $7.99 per month, continuing on the standard streaming plan at the higher price of $9.99 per month, or electing the premium plan at $11.99 per month. We will complete the phase out of grandfathered pricing through the remainder of 2016. Most of our members under grandfathered pricing are in the U.S. However, the same approach and pricing structures are applied internationally. The following represents the key elements to our segment results of operations: 19 Table of Contents Domestic Streaming Segment Three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 In the Domestic streaming segment, we derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to our members in the United States. The 23% increase in our domestic streaming revenues was primarily due to an 11% growth in the average number of paid memberships, as well as a 10% increase in the average monthly revenue per paying membership, resulting from our price changes and plan mix. Our standard plan continues to be the most popular plan choice for new memberships. In the second quarter of 2016, we began to phase out grandfathered pricing and will complete this in the fourth quarter of 2016. As of September 30, 2016, less than a quarter of our paying members in the United States remained under a grandfathered price plan. Cancellations by members whose grandfathered pricing expired have not been material and we expect this trend to continue. While the expiration of this grandfathered pricing may moderate near term membership growth, we believe the overall impact of the expiration of grandfathered pricing will be an increase in revenue. If we experience higher than expected cancellations of service by members whose grandfathered pricing is expiring or if these members elect the lower priced plan in greater numbers than we expect, average monthly revenue per paying membership and revenues may differ from our expectations. The increase in domestic streaming cost of revenues was primarily due to a $78.6 million increase in content expenses relating to our existing and new streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. Domestic marketing expenses increased primarily due to increased advertising and public relations spending, as well as increased payments to our device partners. Our Domestic streaming segment had a contribution margin of 36% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , which increased as compared to the contribution margin of 32% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 due to growth in paid memberships and revenue which continued to outpace content spending. Our 2020 domestic streaming contribution margin target remains at 40%. 20 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 The increase in our domestic streaming revenues was primarily due to a 13% growth in the average number of paid memberships as well as the 6% increase in average monthly revenue per paying membership resulting from our price changes and plan mix. The increase in domestic streaming cost of revenues was primarily due to a $222.3 million increase in content expenses relating to our existing and new streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. Other costs increased $31.9 million primarily due to increases in our streaming delivery expenses, costs associated with our customer service call centers and payment processing fees, all driven by our growing member base. Domestic marketing expenses increased primarily due to increased advertising and public relations spending, as well as increased payments to our device partners. Our Domestic streaming segment had a contribution margin of 35% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , which increased as compared to the contribution margin of 32% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due to growth in paid memberships and revenue which outpaced content and marketing spending. International Streaming Segment Three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 In the International streaming segment, we derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to our members outside the United States. We launched our streaming service in Canada in September 2010 and have expanded our services internationally as shown below. 21 Table of Contents The increase in our international revenues was due to a 55% increase in the average number of paid international memberships, in addition to a 6% increase in the average monthly revenue per paying membership. The increase in the average monthly revenue per paying membership was due to price changes and plan mix offset partially by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We estimate that international revenues in the third quarter of 2016 would have been approximately $34.9 million higher if foreign exchange rates had remained consistent with the foreign exchange rates from the third quarter of 2015. If foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate more than expected, revenues and average revenue per paying membership may differ from our expectations. Average paid international streaming memberships accounted for 43% of global average paid streaming memberships for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to 35% of global average paid streaming memberships for the same period in 2015. While the expiration of grandfathered pricing may moderate near term membership growth, we believe the overall impact of the expiration of grandfathered pricing will be an increase in revenue. If we experience higher than expected cancellations of service by members whose grandfathered pricing is expiring or if these members elect the lower priced plan in greater numbers than we expect, our paid memberships, average monthly revenue per paying membership and revenue may differ from our expectations. The increase in international cost of revenues was primarily due to a $264.6 million increase in content expenses relating to our existing and new streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. Other costs increased $32.7 million primarily due to increases in our streaming delivery expenses, costs associated with our customer service call centers and payment processing fees, all driven by our growing member base. International marketing expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 mainly due to expenses for territories launched in the last twelve months. International contribution losses were relatively flat for the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. 22 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 The increase in our international revenues was due to the 60% growth in our average number of paid international memberships, in addition to a 2% increase in our average monthly revenue per paying membership. The increase in the average monthly revenue per paying membership was due to price changes and plan mix, partially offset by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We estimate that international revenues in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 would have been approximately $153.6 million higher if foreign exchange rates had remained consistent with the foreign exchange rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in international cost of revenues was primarily due to a $726.3 million increase in content expenses relating to our existing and new streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. Other costs increased $100.8 million primarily due to increases in our streaming delivery expenses, costs associated with our customer service call centers and payment processing fees, all driven by our growing member base, partially offset by decreases resulting from exchange rate fluctuations. International marketing expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 increased mainly due to expenses for territories launched in the last twelve months. International contribution losses grew for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , due to increased spending for our international expansion and the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Domestic DVD Segment Three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 In the Domestic DVD segment, we derive revenues from our DVD-by-mail membership services. The price per plan for DVD-by-mail varies from $4.99 to $15.99 per month according to the plan chosen by the member. DVD-by-mail plans differ by the number of DVDs that a 23 Table of Contents member may have out at any given point. Members electing access to high definition Blu-ray discs, in addition to standard definition DVDs, pay a surcharge ranging from $2 to $4 per month for our most popular plans. The decrease in our domestic DVD revenues was due to a 15% decrease in the average number of paid memberships. The decrease in domestic DVD cost of revenues was primarily due to a $9.3 million decrease in delivery expenses resulting from a 19% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to members. The decrease in shipments was driven by a decline in the number of DVD memberships and reduced usage by those members. Other costs, primarily those associated with processing and customer service expenses, decreased $3.5 million primarily due to a decrease in hub operation expenses resulting from the decline in DVD shipments. Our Domestic DVD segment contribution margin was relatively flat for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 The decrease in our domestic DVD revenues was due to a 15% decrease in the average number of paid memberships. The decrease in domestic DVD cost of revenues was primarily due to a $24.3 million decrease in delivery expenses resulting from a 17% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to members. The decrease in shipments was driven by a decline in the number of DVD memberships and reduced usage by those members. Content expenses decreased by $13.6 million and other costs, primarily those associated with processing and customer service expenses, decreased $10.0 million primarily due to a decrease in hub operation expenses resulting from the decline in DVD shipments. Our Domestic DVD segment contribution margin increased for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , compared to the same period in 2015, as revenues decreased at a slower pace than cost of revenues. Consolidated Operating Expenses Technology and Development Technology and development expenses consist of payroll and related costs incurred in making improvements to our service offerings, including testing, maintaining and modifying our user interface, our recommendation, merchandising and streaming delivery technology and infrastructure. Technology and development expenses also include costs associated with computer hardware and software. Three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 24 Table of Contents The increase in technology and development expenses was primarily due to a $40.8 million increase in personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, resulting from an increase in compensation for existing employees and a 20% growth in average headcount supporting continued improvements in our streaming service and our international expansion. Nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 The increase in technology and development expenses was primarily due to a $127.3 million increase in personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, resulting from an increase in compensation for our existing employees and a 20% growth in average headcount supporting continued improvements in our streaming service and our international expansion. In addition, third party expenses, including costs associated with cloud computing, increased $19.3 million. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for corporate personnel, as well as professional fees and other general corporate expenses. Three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 General and administrative expenses increased primarily due to a $37.0 million increase in personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, resulting from a 42% increase in average headcount primarily to support our international and original content expansion, and an increase in compensation for existing employees. Nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 General and administrative expenses increased primarily due to an $112.1 million increase in personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, resulting from a 44% increase in average headcount primarily to support our international and original content expansion, and an increase in compensation for existing employees. 25 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of the interest associated with our outstanding long-term debt obligations, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, as well as interest on our lease financing obligations. Three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 Nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 Interest expense consisted primarily of interest on our Notes of $33.8 million and $101.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , respectively. The increase in interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015 was due primarily to the 5.50% and 5.875% Senior Notes, which were issued in February 2015, bearing interest for the full nine month period ended September 30, 2016 and only a portion of the nine month period ended September 30, 2015. Interest and Other Income (Expense) Interest and other income (expense) consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency denominated balances. Three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 Nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 Interest and other income (expense) increased for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , due to foreign exchange gains of $6.4 million and $44.6 million, respectively, compared to a gain of $2.4 million and a loss of $32.0 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods in 2015. In both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , the foreign exchange gain was primarily driven by favorable exchange gains resulting primarily from the remeasurement of significant content liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies, such as the British pound, in our European and U.S. entities. 26 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rates for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were 35% and 30%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2016 differed from the Federal statutory rate primarily due to Federal and California research and development ("R D") credits partially offset by state taxes, foreign taxes and non-deductible expenses. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , differed from the Federal statutory rate primarily due to the California R D credit partially offset by state taxes, foreign taxes and non-deductible expenses. The increase in our effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the same period in 2015 was attributable primarily to increased operating results for the three months ended September 30, 2016. The effective tax rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were 30% and 34%, respectively. The effective tax rates for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , differed from the Federal statutory rate primarily due to Federal and California research and development credits partially offset by state taxes, foreign taxes and non-deductible expenses. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , differed from the Federal statutory rate primarily due to the California R D credit partially offset by state taxes, foreign taxes and non-deductible expenses. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the same period in 2015 was attributable primarily to the permanent reinstatement of the Federal R D credit in the fourth quarter of 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments decreased $967.4 million from $2,310.7 million as of December 31, 2015 to $1,343.3 million as of September 30, 2016 . The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was due to cash used in operations. Long-term debt, net of debt issuance costs, was $2,374.0 million and $2,371.4 million as of September 30, 2016 , and December 31, 2015, respectively. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Our primary uses of cash include the acquisition, licensing and production of content, streaming delivery, marketing programs and personnel-related costs. Investments in original content, and in particular content that we produce and own, require more cash upfront relative to licensed content. We expect to significantly increase our investments in global streaming content, particularly in original content, which will impact our liquidity and may result in future negative free cash flows even after we achieve material global profitability. We currently anticipate that cash flows from operations, together with available funds and access to capital markets, will continue to be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next twelve months. To take advantage of the current favorable interest rate environment, we plan to obtain additional long-term debt in the fourth quarter of 2016. Our ability to obtain this or any additional financing that we may choose to, or need to, obtain will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We may not be able to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. As of September 30, 2016 , cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries amounted to $231.1 million. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on the portion associated with undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash provided by (used in) operating and investing activities excluding the non-operational cash flows from purchases, maturities and sales of short-term investments. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity metric because it measures, during a given period, the amount of cash generated that is available to repay debt obligations, make investments in content and for certain other activities or the amount of cash used in operations, including investments in global streaming content. Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, net income, operating income, cash flow (used in) provided by operating activities, or any other measure of financial performance or liquidity presented in accordance with GAAP. In assessing liquidity in relation to our results of operations, we compare free cash flow to net income, noting that the three major recurring differences are excess content payments over expense, non-cash stock-based compensation expense and other working capital differences. The excess content payments over expense is variable based on the payment terms of our content agreements and is expected to increase as we enter into more agreements with upfront cash payments, such as licensing and production of original content. In the first three quarters of 2016, the ratio of content payments over content expense was between 1.3 and 1.6. Working capital differences include deferred revenue, taxes and semi-annual interest payments on our outstanding debt. Our receivables from members generally settle quickly and deferred revenue is a source of cash flow. 27 Table of Contents Three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 Cash used in operating activities increased $266.0 million to $461.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , compared to the same period of 2015. The significant net cash used in operations is due primarily to the increase in investments in streaming content that requires more upfront payments. The payments for streaming content assets increased $712.4 million or 59%. In addition, we had increased payments associated with higher operating expenses. The increased use of cash was partially offset by a $551.8 million or 32% increase in revenues. Cash provided by investing activities increased $71.5 million, primarily due to an increase in the proceeds from the sale of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $59.9 million, coupled with a decrease in the purchases of property and equipment of $10.5 million. Cash provided by financing activities decreased $56.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 , primarily due to the decrease in cash received from the issuance of common stock, and a decrease in the excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Free cash flow was $557.9 million lower than net income for the three months ended September 30, 2016 primarily due to $688.1 million of cash payments for streaming content assets over streaming amortization expense, partially offset by $43.5 million of non-cash stock-based compensation expense and $86.7 million favorable other working capital differences. Free cash flow was $281.4 million lower than net income for the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to $328.4 million of cash payments for streaming content assets over streaming amortization expense partially offset by $32.8 million of non-cash stock-based compensation expense and $14.2 million favorable other working capital differences. Nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 28 Table of Contents Cash used in operating activities increased $412.1 million, primarily due to increased payments for streaming content assets of $1,577.2 million or 48%, as well as increased payments associated with higher operating expenses. The increased use of cash was partially offset by a $1,397.0 million or 28% increase in revenues. Cash provided by investing activities increased $164.0 million, primarily due to an increase in proceeds from the sale of short-term investments and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases, of $128.6 million, coupled with a decrease in the purchases of property and equipment of $31.8 million. Cash provided by financing activities decreased $1,608.6 million, primarily due to the prior year proceeds of $1,482.4 million, net, from the issuance of the 5.50% Notes and the 5.875% Notes in the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Free cash flow was $1,141.1 million lower than net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 primarily due to $1,418.3 million of cash payments for streaming content assets over amortization expense, partially offset by $130.0 million of non-cash stock-based compensation expense and $147.2 million favorable other working capital differences. Free cash flow was $723.9 million lower than net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily due to $855.6 million of cash payments for streaming content assets over streaming amortization expense, partially offset by $88.9 million of non-cash stock-based compensation expense and $42.8 million favorable other working capital differences. Contractual Obligations For the purpose of this table, contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of the payment of the obligations discussed below is estimated based on information available to us as of September 30, 2016 . Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2016 : Streaming content obligations increased $3.5 billion from $10.9 billion as of December 31, 2015 to $14.4 billion as of September 30, 2016 , primarily due to multi-year commitments associated with the continued expansion of our exclusive and original programming. Streaming content obligations include amounts related to the acquisition, licensing and production of streaming content. An obligation for the production of content includes non-cancelable commitments under creative talent and employment agreements. An obligation for the acquisition and licensing of content is incurred at the time we enter into an agreement to obtain future titles. Once a title becomes available, a content liability is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain agreements include the obligation to license rights for unknown future titles, the ultimate quantity and/or fees for which are not yet determinable as of the reporting date. Traditional film output deals, like the U.S. output deal with Disney, or certain TV series license agreements where the number of seasons to be aired is unknown, are examples of these types of agreements. The contractual obligations table above does not include any estimated obligation for the unknown future titles, payment for which could range from less than one year to more than five years. However, these unknown obligations are expected to be significant and we believe could include approximately $3 billion to $5 billion over the next three years, with the payments for the vast majority of such amounts expected to occur after the next twelve months. The foregoing range is based on considerable management judgments and the actual amounts may differ. Once we know the title that we will receive and the license fees, we include the amount in the contractual obligations table above. 29 Table of Contents As of September 30, 2016 , we had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $16.5 million which was classified in Other non-current liabilities and a reduction to deferred tax assets which was classified as "Other non-current assets" in the consolidated balance sheets. At this time, an estimate of the range of reasonably possible adjustments to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits cannot be made. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have transactions with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to us. Indemnification The information set forth under Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption Indemnification is incorporated herein by reference. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. The Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has defined a company s critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a company s financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Streaming Content We acquire, license and produce content, including original programing, in order to offer our members unlimited viewing of TV shows and films. The content licenses are for a fixed fee and specific windows of availability. Payment terms for certain content licenses and the production of content require more upfront cash payments relative to the amortization expense. Payments for content, including additions to streaming assets and the changes in related liabilities, are classified within "Net cash used in operating activities" on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. For licenses we capitalize the fee per title and record a corresponding liability at the gross amount of the liability when the license period begins, the cost of the title is known and the title is accepted and available for streaming. The portion available for streaming within one year is recognized as Current content assets, net and the remaining portion as Non-current content assets, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For productions we capitalize costs associated with the production, including development cost and direct costs. We include these amounts in "Non-current content assets, net" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Participations and residuals are expensed in line with the amortization of production costs. Based on factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns, we amortize the content assets (licensed and produced) in Cost of revenues on the Consolidated Statements of Operations, over the shorter of each title's contractual window of availability or estimated period of use, beginning with the month of first availability. The amortization period typically ranges from six months to five years. For content where we expect more upfront viewing, due to the additional merchandising and marketing efforts, we amortize on an accelerated basis. We review factors that impact the amortization of the content assets on a regular basis. Our estimates related to these factors require considerable management judgment. In the third quarter of 2016, we changed the amortization method of certain content given changes in estimated viewing patterns of this content. The effect of this change in estimate on operating income, net income and basic and diluted earnings per share was not material for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. Changes in our estimates could have a significant impact on our future results of operations. Our business model is subscription based as opposed to a model generating revenues at a specific title level. Therefore, content assets, both licensed and produced are reviewed in aggregate at the operating segment level when an event or change in circumstances indicates a 30 Table of Contents change in the expected usefulness or that the fair value may be less than amortized cost. To date, we have not identified any such event or changes in circumstances. If such changes are identified in the future, these aggregated content assets will be stated at the lower of unamortized cost, net realizable value or fair value. In addition, unamortized costs for assets that have been, or are expected to be, abandoned are written off. No material write-down from unamortized cost was recorded in any of the periods presented. We have entered into certain licenses with collective management organizations, and are currently involved in negotiations with others who hold certain rights to music and other entertainment works "publicly performed" in connection with streaming content into various territories. Accruals for estimated license fees are recorded and then adjusted based on any changes in estimates. These amounts are included in the streaming content obligations. The results of these negotiations are uncertain and may be materially different from management's estimates. Income Taxes We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Deferred income taxes are recognized by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance for any tax benefits for which future realization is uncertain. There was no valuation allowance as of September 30, 2016 or December 31, 2015. Although we believe our assumptions, judgments and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of any tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, in full or in part, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, and our forecast of future earnings, future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. Actual operating results in future years could differ from our current assumptions, judgments and estimates. However, we believe that it is more likely than not that substantially all deferred tax assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets will ultimately be realized. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. We did not recognize certain tax benefits from uncertain tax positions within the provision for income taxes. We may recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. At September 30, 2016 , our estimated gross unrecognized tax benefits were $16.5 million of which $13.7 million , if recognized, would favorably impact our future earnings. Due to uncertainties in any tax audit outcome, our estimates of the ultimate settlement of our unrecognized tax positions may change and the actual tax benefits may differ significantly from the estimates. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding income taxes. Stock-Based Compensation We grant fully vested non-qualified stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. As a result of immediate vesting, stock-based compensation expense is fully recognized on the grant date, and no estimate is required for post-vesting option forfeitures. Stock-based compensation expense at the grant date is based on the total number of options granted and an estimate of the fair value of the awards. We calculate the fair value of our stock option grants using a lattice-binomial model. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of options granted and our results of operations could be impacted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements The information set forth under Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements under the caption Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies is incorporated herein by reference. 31 Table of Contents For financial market risks related to changes in interest rates, reference is made to Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk contained in Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Our exposure to market risk has not changed significantly since December 31, 2015 . Foreign Currency Risk International revenues and cost of revenues account for 36% and 47%, respectively of consolidated amounts for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The majority of international revenues and a smaller portion of expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and we therefore have foreign currency risk related to these currencies, which are primarily the euro, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen and the Brazilian real. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may negatively affect our revenue and contribution profit (loss) of our International streaming segment as expressed in U.S. dollars. In the nine months ended September 30, 2016, we believe our international revenues would have been approximately $153.6 million higher had foreign currency exchange rates remained consistent with those in same period of 2015. We have also experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of gains (losses) on the settlement and the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies that are not the functional currency. In the nine months ended September 30, 2016, we recognized a $44.6 million foreign exchange gain which resulted primarily from the remeasurement of significant content liabilities denominated in currencies, such as the British pound, that are not the functional currencies of our European and U.S. entities. We do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge any foreign currency exposures. The volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. Our continued international expansion increases our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and as a result such fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations. Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q were effective in providing reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms and (ii) accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended September 30, 2016 , that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 32 Table of Contents PART II. OTHER INFORMATION The information set forth under Note 6 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements under the caption Legal Proceedings is incorporated herein by reference. There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed under the heading Risk Factors in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . (a) Exhibits: See Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 33 Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 34 Table of Contents EXHIBIT INDEX 35 	 